---
layout: page
title: Venue & Parking
permalink: /venue/
---

* TOC
{:toc}

Location
=====

Dance Home located at 522 Santa Monica Blvd. in Santa Monica, CA 90401.  It is
on the South side of the street, between 5th Street and 6th Street.  The
entrance is immediately to the left of the door to Radio Shack .  Enter and go
up the stairs and there you are!

<div class="iframe-wrap"><iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d3307.026505593861!2d-118.4956940844659!3d34.01753058061537!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x80c2a4ce67b24be5%3A0x2117628d38bcf5bf!2s522+Santa+Monica+Blvd%2C+Santa+Monica%2C+CA+90401!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1444471809394" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>



Parking
=====

There is metered parking all around our venue.

Do NOT park at the 2 meters directly in front of our venue after 6pm.  It becomes a bus zone at 6pm and you will be ticketed!

There is a [public parking lot](https://goo.gl/maps/mUcvnqooVkr) that is free after 6pm:

| 1217 7th Street
| Santa Monica, 90401

<div class="iframe-wrap"><iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m18!1m12!1m3!1d3306.8838994700877!2d-118.4968656844658!3d34.02119098061444!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x80c2a4c925b9f717%3A0xceaed602c0b6c29a!2s1217+7th+St%2C+Santa+Monica%2C+CA+90401!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1444471174188" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe></div>



Venue History
=====

The Studio which has become known as “Dance Home”, located at 522 Santa Monica
Blvd. in Santa Monica, CA 90401, was built in 1925.  By the 1930s it had
become an important focus of the Ballroom Dance scene with many Hollywood dance
legends such as Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers working out there on a regular
basis.  Another dance partner of Astaire’s, Cyd Charisse, even taught classes
there for Years.  Eventually, it became part of the Arther Murry Dance
franchise empire.

During the 1960s dance took on a whole new flavor.  The Arther Murry Dance
Studio gave way to I. D. E. A. or Improvisational Dance and Expressive Arts,
run by Artist Claudia Chapline. In the mid-70s the IDEA Studio began hosting
musical dance events on Sundays.  Some Sundays featured Show Tunes while other
Sundays featured live local bands.  These events met with mixed popularity and
began to fade.

In 1976 Randy Cooley took notice of the dance events happening at the IDEA
studio.  He had been experimenting on his own with meditative free movement and
was convinced that it had great therapeutic value.  He decided to try playing
music on some open Sundays to allow people to explore their own body’s
movement.  Word spread and the groups grew in size and Randy took over more
Sundays.  About this time a rift developed between the land lord and Ms.
Chapline resulting in her surrendering her lease.  The land lords planned to
convert the space into office units and rent the units to businesses.  Randy
thought it would be a shame to loss such an amazing, historical movement space
and asked them if they would rent it to him.  They agreed and Dance Home was
born,

Randy’s “other” business is selling high end music equipment (Optimal
Enchantment) which allowed him to put together a state of the art sound system
on which he and other DJ’s,  played music for people to “explore” to up until
2008.

The “Dance” aspect Dance Home lives on though our Contact Improv Jams which we
have been holding every Sunday night for over 20 years.  Dance also continues
on Tuesday nights with “Spiritweaves”, hosted by Michael & Anneli
Molin-Skelton.

Over the years, Dance Home has also hosted many other, non-dance activities as
well.  It has become one of Brian Kests’ Power Yoga bases.  It was also the
site of regular Tensegrity classes led by Carlos Castaneda.  And there have
been more other activities far to numerous to count.

In the nearly 30 years I have spent moving at Dance Home floor, I am always
pleased by how the space,… and the floor feels,.. There seems to be something
magical about it.  And as I have learned more about its history, it makes
sense.

-Jeffrey Nash

